# Aragon Flock proposal: PanAragon - Aragon for all

# Idea

PanAragon is the “(un)bank-like” arm of Aragon. PanAragon is network of DAOs inspired by decentralised financial systems, aiming to find almost immediate integrations with real world use-cases.

PanAragon has already extensively researched various existing models where our framework can be easily adopted, and developed a concept for large-scale adoption thanks to the mobile client development. 
PanAragon is also a research laboratory, and a builder of core infrastructure, client improvement and applications for the Aragon Protocol.

In layman terms: if Aragon is a country, PanAragon this would be the Ministry of Finance, but as well, they would be the direct interface with real world use cases to learn from them (eg. Chamas in Kenya have been running savings circles for centuries in a way that DAOs can actually learn from them - this is one of the researched societies) with immediate effect, and an R&D arm, as they are already a "product laboratory" with immediate use cases that can be applied for identifying a product-market fit using a combination of methodologies used by the VCs and advised by our formal and informal product advisors from Accel Partners, Qiwi, etc.


# Product Vision
Mesh networks of co-operatives are emerging as an alternative to centralised banking networks. 
This is happening outside of the decentralized ecosystem, it is what is happening right now - in the “meatspace” - as peoples’ trust in financial institutions is at its all-time low, and the need to have robust alternatives is becoming clearer every day.

This trend is validated by the following events:
* Barclays Bank and Deutsche Bank shorts accumulated by the leading hedge funds in the world, that successfully called the 2007 US housing crisis
* European Central Bank announced potential deprecation of the depositor protection scheme
* European Court of Justice passes a law that it is now legal for a member-state to pass (or default, in other words) on their pensions obligations in the event of an economic crisis
* At the same time, the trends towards user-owned networks is increasing and with greater regulatory restrictions, it is clear that user-owned non-bank institutions that do not follow the fractional reserve banking model and enable their members to save their assets in inflation-resistant currency is the future. 

## Focus on mass adoption

PanAragon focuses on real-world DAO equivalents identified by the team during the extensive research into [chamas as precursors to DAOs](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16P9pAqSryjJpk37R-CtXDEw-0pNtYpuBei2cmfIR2E8/edit#slide=id.g35c0209681_0_0) - and see the Aragon SDK as a toolkit to super-charge traditional co-op/mutual structures and enable them to save, transact and grow at scale safely, without dependency on banks, financial institutions such a state pension funds which are a de facto Ponzi scheme, or nation-states themselves for that matter.

In the words of Amber Baldet, we see freedom to transact as a human right. By facilitating access to various ways to fundraise, transact and crowdfund for real-world DAO equivalents, PanAragon focuses on a fairer financial system, powered by Aragon.

Who is the target user base of PanAragon? Small DAOs, real-world co-ops and others can use PanAragon. 

For further details, please see our 
* Our open-sourced research airtable [“Savings Circles Research”](https://airtable.com/tblByqyiXfvnPTX2V/viwWaKI5mTp56z9lu?blocks=hide)  on academic and market research on DAOs and informal economy
* Our research presentation at FullNode Berlin alongside AutarkLabs and Gnosis on [“Savings Circled in Africa: Lessons for Practical DAO Governance”](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16P9pAqSryjJpk37R-CtXDEw-0pNtYpuBei2cmfIR2E8/edit#slide=id.g35c0209681_0_0)
* [PRESS] Supporting use case, where a group of a large co-operative women farmers saved for 4 years+ to be able to afford to buy a plot of land and build a student housing accommodation on it, with each member enjoying fractional ownership of the asset and setting an unique precedent in the country: [“Kenyan Women defy tradition to become landlords for the first time in history”](https://samrack.com/kenyan-women-defy-tradition-to-become-landlords/)
* [DRAFT] Macro-thesis [“Remergence of co-operatives in the new economy”](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/179HVBO3Xtt1jEgJcr0iOWXCeX-jXANqvSmblXI3Kfn0/edit?ts=5c9e64b2#slide=id.g50bebab043_0_14)


## Values
* **Individual self-sovereignty**
* **“Ability to transact as a human right”**: PanAragon brings a financial and social organizational system that’s fair, borderless, decentralized and infinitely scalable as it respects the Dunbar’s number limitations that cap the social interactions and focuses on enabling a federated network of digital co-operatives, where real-world identity and social contract come to the fore. 
* **Measurable real-world impact**: We are delighted that Aragon is already concerned with the real world interaction, as demonstrated by MariaPao’s [Aragon Nest proposal #48](https://github.com/aragon/nest/issues/48). We propose to take it further in our Product Vision for PanAragon
* **Appreciation for alternatives**: we believe decentralisation will move from a niche indie movement to become a matter of self-preservation in the years to come

## What it gives to the Aragon Ecosystem

## A step towards financial sustainability
As long-time ecosystem contributors,  PanAragon are aware of the current state of affairs. We believe that every project/company needs to achieve financial, long-term sustainability. Projects like Aragon cannot wither due to market fluctuations, as we have seen others do. 

We have analysed the current status of Aragon’s treasury - and are very impressed with the way this has been managed. Financial sustainability is important to Aragon and it is important to us. We therefore propose sustainability model, which at a very high level is outlined here in a financial model [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dyJ4URkGqLxCdZYFuPWe14_5ISM-QRQTMltr3CUhWSw/edit#gid=0). Please note our comments and assumptions - the model serves only to share our vision with numbers. The feedback is much appreciated. 

## PanAragon R&D
* Works on Aragon infrastructure and new apps that work both for Akropolis and as standalone apps that can be plugged into other Aragon DAOs.
* Product laboratory with real world use cases that creates products that potentially have immediate possibilities to be used in modern societies. 
* Monetisation models

## Cross-Flock collaboration
* Apiary: the small DAOs or co-ops can request funding from PanAragon and crowdfund as well via Apiary, for their common goals (eg. a property)
* Pando can help us achieve the mission of delivering Apiary for the masses - starting with co-ops.
* Autark Labs to help with UX/UI (see Team Section) 
* Open collaboration and constant feedback with the Aragon One team, improvement of Aragon Core, new apps, and other Aragon Project milestones. 
* Feedback loops, and proposals to the Board of Directors and Aragon Community via AGPs to generate monetisation avenues for the project.

## Deliverables - New Core Aragon Tools

1. Aragon CashflowCredit: fund/finance workers of DAO
2. Aragon Pension
3. Layer-2 governance solution (akin to Plasma для DAO)
4. PanAragon / Chama.NETWORK (deprecated name)
5. Universal DAO login for services across Aragon and broader network similar to universal Facebook login: Chama Identity 

Ecosystem solutions: what problems does Aragon have which they will inevitably have to solve?
- Layer-2 solution akin to Plasma
- Chama.network - cross-DAO exchange of value and information >> Polkadot use?
- Chama.identity (refer to prior implementation [proposal](https://github.com/Native-Protocol/flock/blob/master/teams/Aragon%20One/2019.md))
- Offer to contribute to Aragon Polkadot R&D - solves dao scalability and cost of gas
- Mobile client
- Financial accounting module
- Decentralised documents storage module
- Legal plug-in (in collaboration with Ross Campbell, a contributor to OpenLaw): ability for a DAO to sign an enforceable legal contract and own physical assets/property.


After analysing various existing solutions for the implementation of our vision(Aragon, https://github.com/slockit/DAO, etc.). We chose to do so withAragon as it is, to the best of our knowledge, the strongest platform with a ready-made existing product and a strong technical community that is actively working to improve it. We have extensively researched Aragon’s Voting apps, aragon-cli, aragon-ui and aragonOS. 

We are building common building blocks for PanAragon, which allow financial cooperation between the DAO (lending, joint investment, etc.). We are splitting the main components into separate topics.


### I01 Scalability solutions

Layer-2 Governance solution

A company with active operations constantly makes decisions (many decisions). AragonOS is a technically complex product and it consumes a large amount of gas, 150,000+ units of gas based on our analysis of Aragon smart contracts. In this regard, the cost of on-chain governance which is at the heart of Aragon becomes an impediment to ability of Aragon-based organisations to grow. 

Therefore, to address the cost of on-chain governance as an impeding factor to growth of the overall network, we propose to create a layer-2 solution adapted for on-chain voting, similar to Plasma. To provide an additional layer of security, we propose to implement it on Substrate. Subsequently, we aim to deliver parachain working with Aragon contracts on Ethereum, with the parachain’s native smart contract API accepting signed transactions for voting messages. 

An additional layer of security enabled by the Polkadot protocol ensures that votes cannot be manipulated and voting system cannot be easily attacked. When the voting ends (voting rules will be described in the Polkadot’s contracts), the results will be synchronized with the Ethereum network.

Given that Aragon announced its desire to implement the protocol on Polkadot, this solution can be adapted for the Polkadot version of the Aragon protocol and fast-track the overall R&D efforts and roadmap. Our team has already created own chain using Substrate and is acting as a validator for Polkadot testnets. Polkadot Telemetry details  are here: 
- https://telemetry.polkadot.io/#/Akropolis
- https://telemetry.polkadot.io/#/Krumme%20Lanke
- https://telemetry.polkadot.io/#/Alexander


### I02 Applications 

I02-1 DAO Financial Interoperability

The current functionality of Aragon provides tools for operating specific DAO. However, with the growing number of Organizations being created, interoperability between various DAOs becomes crucialt. Our goal is to create programmatic tools for such interaction:
- accounting  (US GAAP and EU IFRS equivalent)
- processing cross-DAO financial transactions, e.g. lending/borrowing, co-investment - credit and equity

Thus, we will enable the creation of an interoperable network between DAOs whereby value and information can be exchanged in a fast secure and transparent trust-minimized way. 


### I02-2 DAO Documents storage & Law contracts

We are going to integrate blockchain-enabled legal agreements into the creation and operation of DAO (in collaboration with [Ross Campbell of OpenLaw](https://twitter.com/r_ross_campbell/status/1109501487099588608)), as well as for cross-DAO interaction. Legal contracts are stored encrypted decentralized in IPFS / Swarm. Access to documents will be granted only to authorized users.

Functionality possible now:
- Join a legally recognisable partnership in a certain jurisdiction
- Prove/confirm ownership of a real-world asset
- Execute/sign up to a loan agreement 

We have already commenced working with Ross on DAO-to-DAO loan agreements, tailored constitution documents and co-investment agreements.


### I02-3 PanAragon Identity

One of the limitations of the current state ofAragon is the lack of a single entry point for digital ID and membership management through all organizations. 
Our goal is to create a unified user and organization identification process (both as UI as dApp), allowing organizations to create and manage decentralized self-sovereign pseudo-anonymous identities, improving the usability of the Aragon ecosystem

Key elements/concepts:

- Individual profiles.
Allows individuals to create a user profile, match it with a human-readable identity (name ENS / mobile phone number/email address).
- A single entry-point for interaction with all organizations in which the user is. 
A user profile is used for registering membership in an organization and allows you to create a single interface for managing all organizations (in the same way that Slack supports participation in different teams). A user in a single interface can view all the DAOs in which he is a member, manage the permissions and privileges that he has granted to various DAOs.

Github: https://github.com/akropolisio/chama-passport-apps 

We are happy to collaborate with Autark labs [identity proposal](https://medium.com/@stellarmagnet/autark-flock-proposal-cf19464f3129)  including Nest [Bright ID](https://github.com/aragon/nest/issues/60) to draw on their UX/UI expertise.


### I03 UX

I03-1 Mobile client
We are developing an application so that any Informal Financial Organization operating on PanAragon or any Aragon DAO can conduct operations and interact with other DAOs. This app will be one interface for the user to work with all chamas he is in. He will be able to see all the chamas he is in, all the current vote proposal for all DAOs, and follow the accounting of each DAO. 
Today in the ecosystem there are already mobile wallets with web 3 support and [Aragon in particular](https://twitter.com/izqui9/status/1090214779355123712). We are working on a use-case specific solution adapted to perform operations typical for chamas/co-ops.


## Grant Size

We would like to request $447k paid in DAI to cover the operating costs of Q3 & Q4 2019. These funds would be used as follows.



### ANT package
We would like to request 600k ANT with 1-year cliff and 4-year vesting to incentivize employees and align our long-term interests with those of the Aragon Network.


## Requirements

* Blog access on blog.aragon.org
* Unrestricted use of the Aragon trademark
* Publish access to aragonpm.eth
* Access to Aragon servers and cloud infrastructure
* Access to Aragon DNS and ENS domains
* Admin/moderator access on aragon.chat, forum.aragon.org, and /r/AragonProject


## Organization structure
Akropolis Decentralised Ltd. | Suite 23 Portland House, Glacis Road, Gibraltar, GX11 1AA | COMPANY NUMBER: 116430 

## Team

For detailed bios of team members, please see our Wiki  (inspired by Aragon!) at https://wiki.akropolis.io/team/. All potential new hires are known to us and therefore the team can hit the ground running without having to gel, which is vital for cohesion and ability to deliver
We propose a 5-person core team configuration:
- 2 product 
[Ana Andria](https://wiki.akropolis.io/team/#ana-andria), 
[Ilgiz Gimal](https://wiki.akropolis.io/team/#ilgiz-gimal)
- 3 technical
[Alex Maz](https://wiki.akropolis.io/team/#alex-maz), 
[Alex Koz](https://wiki.akropolis.io/team/#alex-koz), 
[Dima Serd](https://wiki.akropolis.io/team/#dima-serd)

If we are successful in securing the Flock funding, the core PanAragon team will be complemented by 4 additional contractors:
* 1 Community, External Comms, Product Strategy ([María Paula Fernández](https://twitter.com/mptherealmvp))
* 1 UX/UI (already identified)
* 1 web3 developer (already identified)
* 1 business development (already identified)
