# Summary
Vocdoni is a global project that aims to provide a universal, anonymous and end-to-end verifiable voting platform.

Our aim is a trustless voting system that anyone can run, where anyone speak his/her voice and where everything can be audited. We are engineering the building blocks for a permissioness, private and censorship resistant democracy and we belive that our platform can lead to very nice synergies within an ecosystem like Aragon's.

We intend the algorithms, systems, and software that we build to be a useful contribution toward making "violence in these cryptonetworks impossible by protecting users' privacy with cryptography." In particular, our aim is to provide the necessary tooling for the political will of network participants to translate outwardly into real political capital, without sacrificing privacy.

In concrete terms, our intent is to apply our research so that can Aragon DAOs can conduct voting processes that provably account for particular properties of their participants (age, location, or membership for example) - without revealing this data in the course of voting.

# Deliverables

## I01 - Services
The goal of this work package is to create all of the services and supporting infrastructure necessary for organizations to conduct and scale voting processes.

### Components
#### Census Service
Application and API allowing organizations of all types to create and manage collections of user public keys. Census maintainers can set their own criteria for the inclusion of keys in any particular census.
#### Process Service
Application and API for organizations to create and manage voting processes. Gives vote organizers a simple way to formulate ballots and launch on-chain voting processes.
#### L2 Suite
Tool suite enabling easy, secure deployment of supporting L2 infrastructure. The purpose of this supporting infrastructure is to  offload computation and coordination effort from the EVM, thereby improving performance and reducing cost. This can be done is such a way that there is no loss of data integrity. Gives stakeholder organizations a way to deploy and scale gateways and relay nodes that coordinate activity accross themselves, mobile users, the blockchain, and content-addressable storage.

### Roadmap
#### Q3
##### July
* Alpha release of census service. User feedback and testing with stakeholder organizations.
##### August
* Alpha release of process service. Process testing and scalability evaluation.
##### September
* Alpha release of L2 Suite. Burn-in testing and performance optimaization.
#### Q4
##### October
* Beta release of census and process service. Feature complete and refined user flows.
##### November
* Beta Release of L2 Suite. Large-scale testing and failure-mode evaluation. Secure, high-availability packaging and release pipeline.
* Begin comprehensive security audit. 
##### December
* Complete external security audit of all components. Break-fix and user-requested enhancements.
* Wide release



## I02 - Applications
The goal of this work package is to create client applications for participating in voting processes.

### Components
#### Signature App
Mobile client application allowing users to digitally sign petitions.
#### LRS App
Mobile client application enabling users to cast anonymous votes using Linkable Ring Signatures.
#### Snark App
Mobile client application enabling users to cast anonymous votes using Zero-knowledge proofs.

### Roadmap
#### Q3
##### July
* Alpha release of signature app. User feedback and refinement of overall experience.
##### August
* Beta release of signature app. Feature complete and polished.
##### September
* Alpha release of LRS app. Feeback on vote UI.
#### Q4
##### October
* Alpha release of Snark app. Testing and tuning of voting performance.
##### November
* Beta release of LRS and Snark apps. Testing at scale.
* Begin comprehensive security audit.
##### December
* Complete external security audit of all components. Break-fix and user-requested enhancements. 




# Grant Details
## Operating Costs
* $300,000.00 paid in DAI

⋅⋅⋅ 150,000.00 - dev costs

⋅⋅⋅ 125,000.00 - security auditing

⋅⋅⋅ 25,000.00 - outreach

## ANT Package
* 100,000.00 ANT for the Vocdoni organization

## Structure
Our team is primarily located in and around Barcelona, with one member in Berlin. Our workflows are remote-first and conducted in English.

# Team
## Pau Escrich
Pau Escrich is first and foremost an activist and hacker. He holds a Bachelor's degree in Computer Engineering and a Master's degree in Free/Open Source Software, and has wide experience as a enterprise systems administrator. He has worked in academia as a researcher on distributed networks and systems, and has been a principal contributor to many p2p network projects, such as LibreMesh.org and Guifi.net. He has been active in the blockchain world since 2012. He developed and managed a mining pool in 2014 and built open source tools related to the Stratum protocol. For the last two years he has been working as a freelance consultant on security, privacy, blockchain, networks, and distributed systems.

## Xavi Vives
Xavi Vives is a maker. He has worked as a software engineer for most of his professional career, building interactive experiences, games, and real-time visualizations. Bitcoin inspired a lasting shift in his interests, with its potential to bring social and economic systems into greater alighment with his personal values. He has executed extensive research and prototyping around both decentralized meritocratic governance and personal distributed archives. After the censorship suffered in Catalonia in October 2017, he decided to put all his efforts into accelerating mass adoption of this technology.

## Jordi Moraleda
Jordi Moraleda is a computer scientist, musician, culture and freedom lover. He holds a Bachelor's in Computer Engineering, and a Masters in Marketing. He began his career with multinationals including Indra and IBM, before he took a step back and started to invest into entrepreneurial projects. This led him to co-found a tech startup and a digital agency, alongside freelance projects and vocational endeavours involving independent music bands, recording studios, and political organizations. As a computer engineer he is currently focused on full-stack development, software architecture, UI/UX, and decentralized platforms that can make a change.

## Jordi Painan
Jordi Pinyana is a student of computer engineering. He has focused his professional career on projects that can help solve global problems. He co-created a smartphone app that detected attention deficit disorders in infants through an interactive reading game. He started in the crypto world in 2014 and has been dedicated to it full time since 2016. He has worked on blockchain solutions for several multinational firms and teaches a bootcamp on Parity/Ethereum. He is currently in a masters program on blockchain technologies at the Polytechnic University of Catalonia. He firmly believes that through decentralization, which starts with participation, many of the problems that have always worried him could be solved.

## Isaac Wilder
Isaac Wilder is a network, systems, and software engineer with expertise in high performance computing and distributed systems. He has built systems used by some of the world's largest companies. He is the co-founder and former Executive Director of the Free Network Foundation, where he and his team won the 2011 Contact Innovation Prize and were shortlisted for the 2012 Access Innovation Prize. He has been playing with blockchains since 2010 and is based in sunny Berlin.

